---
layout: post
title:  "Return of the Pre-Flashpoint Reverse-Flash? [SPOILERS]"
date:   2016-08-09 09:50:32 +0100
categories: comics
description: "Is the real Eobard Thawne we know and love back in DC Rebirth? [MAJOR Spoilers for the Flash comics and CW show]"
---
When the Thomas Wayne / Batman of the Flashpoint Timeline drove a sword through <b>Professor Eobard "Zoom" Thawne / Reverse-Flash</b>'s heart (we're going by the comic, not the animated movie in this one), many people thought that was it, and they'd never see the Flash's nemesis again. However, I was one of those people that knew, with all the New 52 timeline reset, that Thawne would be coming back. 4 years after his "death", the New 52 "Eobard Thawne" showed up. Unfortunateley, much like DC's New 52 run of comics books - he was not what he should've been.
<br>
<br>
<h4>Eobard Thawne (the one we know and love)</h4>
The reason Eobard was one of the best DC villains of all time was not because of him being the true fastest man alive, not because he was a genius from the future, and not because he erased anyone he didn't like from existence (well, those whose removal from history wouldn't have affect his own existence anyway) - it's because of his reasons for his actions and personal connection to the life of Barry Allen / Flash. Tom Cavanagh did a great job of portrayaing Eobard-as-Wells, swelled up from being stranded in the past for 15 years - however, the comics Eobard is like Matt Letshcer's Eobard Thawne (with his real face) in personality, goals, and pretty much everything else - the reason Eobard Thawne hates Barry Allen, hates The Flash, and wants to not destory, but <i>erase</i> his life and legacy - is because he couldn't be The Flash. Because he was meant to become his <i>Reverse</i>. When he found out about his own future, he took it into his own hands to fullfill it - after coming back to life (after being killed by The Flash by accident) and creating the Negative Speed Force, Eobard not only modified his own history to perfect his life, but he also did it to ruin another - the life of Barry Allen. He left the door open so his dog could die, he erased Barry's best - and only - childhood friend from existence, tripped him down the stairways when he was coming home from middle school, sabotaged his high schol soccer trials and - murdered his mother, framing Barry's father for it. The soon-to-be-Flash had suffered this all from an enemey he hadn't made yet, i.e. this is definiton of Thawne's sick joke. Batman to Joker - Flash to Reverse-Flash.
<br>
<br>
So, understandably, when <b>Eobard Thawne / Zoom</b> showed up in the New 52 reboot - we all were expecting a lot from the new version of the Flash's deranged nemesis from the 25th century. So, there were some differences - instead of Thawne getting his powers from his <i>Negative Speed Force</i> to give him super-speed, he instead was given the ability to manipulate time, via the Speed Force. So I was like, ok, powers are still reverse - good to change stuff sometimes. But things went downhill from there....
<br>
<br>
<h4>"Tyrant Thawne"</h4>
So, this was a Thawne who hadn't fought Barry yet... and the first thing he does is spend centuries getting a team of speed force conduits together, to take down The Flash. <b>The pre-flashpoint Thawne</b> was a lone-wolf, who managed to give the entire Flash family a hard time, on multiple occasions. So, it looked as if the new Thawne was nerfed here.... power/ability-wise and intellectual-wise, but the New 52 had been nerfing a lot of characters, to make them more "real". So, me, and many others, were interested in finding out why Thawne hated The Flash so much - but at the same time, I hoped it was similar to the Pre-Flashpoint reason. The reason the New 52 Eobard Thawne hates the New 52 Barry Allen... is because of an inferiority complex. That was the start of us realising - this new character was only Eobard Thawne by name. The <b><u>real</u>, pre-Flashpoint Eobard</b> had origin<b>s</b> that was like <i>the reverse</i> to Barry Allen's - <i>both his parents were alive and distant from him (he killed them when he messed with time), he had a brother whom he hated (again - he erased his from existence when he messed with time - again), became the smartest Professor studying the Speed Force at The Flash museum (well, he became the <i>best</i> after he erased his rival professor from existence), and, obsessed with The Flash, who he practically worshipped, he recreated the accident that made The Flash, using his genius-level intellect, etc</i>. So, let's see the origin of <b>the New 52 Thawne</b> - <i>he was considered a failure by people, his father killed his mother in front of him as a child, he was <i>chosen</i> by the Speed Force to get his powers... and he was jealous of The Flash, he wanted people to worship him, was never a Professor, became an evil dictator who invaded the Gem cities, nicknamed by people <b>Tyrant Thawne</b></i>. In fact, from now on, I'm gonna refer to the new 52 "Eobard" as Tyrant Thawne - because he is clearly not the Eobard we know. So... Tyrant's motive is an inferiority complex... his origin, his abilities, his personaility and motives (Tyrant whines a lot, and is doing this all for power instead)... clearly not Eobard Thawne.
<br>
<br>
<h4>The return of the <u>real</u> Eobard Thawne</h4>
So, while I was reading <i>DC Rebirth's The Flash: Rebirth</i> (great comic), I noticed something interesting. In the 5th page, it has Barry / Flash running, with pictures of friends, enemies, and fellow heroes around him. In the bottom left, there, you can see Tyrant Thawne / Zoom, in his <b>New 52</b> outfit. However, 2 pages before, Barry is having Speed Force visions of Kid Flash, Godspeed, and... <b>Professor Eobard "Zoom" Thawne / Reverse-Flash</b>. So, why am I calling him that instead of Tyrant Thawne? It's because I believe this is the pre-Flashpoint Eobard Thawne, or a retcon of the new 52 version into a more pre-flashpoint Eobard. First of all - the costume is <b>not the New 52 Zoom one</b>... but the <b>more classic Reverse-Flash one</b>. Also, his lightening is <b>red</b>, rather than <b>Tyrant Thawne's black lightening</b>. So, you may be thinking - "It's just a costume change. Still Tyrant Thawne". That's what I thought as well. Well, until I read what Thawne was saying. <i>"I feared this Barry. You were late"</i>. That line - that very line, is something only the real Eobard would say to Barry. A sentance with with concealed taunting is not in Tyrant Thawne. If that's not enough, <b>read the last page</b> of the comic - at the crime scene of the house, where a <i>man supposedly</i> murdered his wife in front of his child, who claims it was a actually <i>a monster</i> that did it - ring any bells? - <i>a yellow blur, a man in yellow</i> zooms there, and zooms away. Now, this cannot be Tyrant Thawne. Why? Because Tyrant Thawne is locked away in Iron Heights' meta-human prison. Plus - only the real Eobard Thawne would play a sick joke like this, recreatng the tragedy he infilicted on Barry, on someone else. If the pre-Flashpoint Wally West and Doomsday can return, then so can Thawne. <b>Pre-Flashpoint Eobard Thawne: confirmed</b>.